# Tauri Devs Bi-Weekly Meeting Notes

## May 05, 2023

### Agenda

-   [`Tauri v1.3 release`](HTTPS://tauri.app/blog/2023/05/03/tauri-1-3): NSIS
    support & fix for Remote URL accessing IPC
-   @Yuwei: Domain lead for Development Domain based on
    [`Governance model`](HTTPS://hackmd.io/@Beanow/BJC5NXidj/%2FhG-Vp9XKRNCcpQESHz_Liw)
    -   There will be an experiment on Development Team. Choosing a team lead
        for project management around a month or two.
    -   It'll focus on release first. Prioritizing issues based on release
        requirements. The release to focus will be either 1.4 or 2.0. We won't
        finalize periodic release until the experiment ends.
    -   The goal is to find out the issue priority we need to focus. In the
        meantime traige and fix bugs with limited maintainers.
    -   We should also make the
        [`project board`](HTTPS://github.com/orgs/tauri-apps/projects/11)
        maintainable in the future and document the responsibility for team lead
        and the team.
    -   We want to deprecate core group this time. Further permission
        restrictions are coming across Discord and Github.
    -   @amrbashir: I honestly think we should have a product/project manager
        that has the sole purpose of sorting issues for releases and assigning
        them to the appropriate developer. we are also in need of a macos
        developer to help triage and fix bugs related to just macOS as I see
        there is a lot of macOS issues unattended and maybe a project manager
        could help assign these based on importance to the appropriate developer
        engineer.
    -   Domain lead needs to overcome members' difficulty.
    -   @Beanow: much overlap with Domain Leads concept, except that there's 1.
        (Current draft discourages this and promotes 2-or-3.) Can use a lot of
        this work HTTPS://hackmd.io/@Beanow/BJC5NXidj/%2FBpouwSCgSRaS4rBdX5hkMQ
    -   @Beanow: Keeping that in mind, probably avoid "Team Lead" as Teams would
        be a different concept there.
-   Pushing version 2.0

    -   @amrbashir is 1.3 final v1 release? (@Yuwei: no if there's any CVE fix
        needs to backport) There is multiple features and refactors that need to
        land in v2 ut we are currently kinda restricted and can't yet merge them
        into `next` branch as it will introduce huge conflicts with `dev` branch
        like this [`PR`](HTTPS://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/pull/6692) that
        refactors `tauri-runtime` and `tauri-runtime-wry`. There is probably

    -   Is there a solutioin? @amrbashir: Yes, I think there is but it is not
        all rainbows and sunshine, however it should be good enough:

    1. create `v1` branch
    2. merge `next` into `dev`
    3. new features, bug fixes or refactors should target the newly merged `dev`
       branch, just go wild with the changes, no need to wait for audit, review
       and merge in speed if possible.
    4. backport important bug fixes and features (but no refactors, keep it
       minimal) to v1 and publish new minor releases if needed (still needs to
       be audited) which should be easier to do than maintaing two branches and
       keep merging them together
    5. Define v2 features and scope and all engineering effort should work
       towards finishing them. Bellow are some proposing features added to v2
       roadmap project on GitHub:
        1. IPC data transfer improvements (through `fetch` and custom protocol?)
        2. Move endpoints logic from core `tauri` crate to plugins (Lucas is
           working hard on this one, thank you)
        3. Focus on improving the tauri codebase, currently we have some places
           that have comlex logic or scattered through differnet crates and it
           is hard to contribute to these code sections. See
           [`this short conversation`](HTTPS://discord.com/channels/616186924390023171/986184094050316358/1100424522382987375)
           where even I got confused and forgot where things are.
        4. Improve and simplify Javascript APIs especially `fs` and `http`, see
           this [`issue`](HTTPS://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/issues/2233) and
           related [`PR`](HTTPS://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/pull/5136). This
           kinda conflicts with
           [`capability-based security APIs`](HTTPS://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/issues/6107)
           so I am fine with just closing this PR but no one is currently
           working on capability-based security APIs and v2 mobile APIs ar
           expected to not be complete. Anyways, I think there is much value in
           this PR for desktop apps so maybe merge it for v2 and delay
           capability-based security APIs to v3 or move it to another unofficial
           plugin maybe? so it doesn't conflict with the new plugins? or maybe
           under a differnet name as `fs-extra` and `http-extra` or toggle the
           APIs using a feature flag?
        5. Deep linking, I have a
           [`PR`](HTTPS://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/pull/5554) in `tauri` but it
           is missing macOS implemenation, so I need someone to take it to the
           finish line along with this
           [`PR`](HTTPS://github.com/tauri-apps/tao/pull/422) in `tao`. Android
           and iOS should be delayed to 2.\* minor release or maybe v3 giving
           that v2 mobile will probably missing a lot and basically we are just
           aiming for bare-minimum mobile support?
        6. File associations (`Open this file with your tauri app`), see this
           [`PR`](HTTPS://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/pull/4320)
        7. Drag files out of a tauri-app into the file system, see this
           [`issue`](HTTPS://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/issues/2593)
        8. Go through the issues list and add the ones that qualify to land in
           v2 to the backlog so we can all work towards fixing/implementing this
           issues.

## Action Items

-   Pushing IPC improvement along with or after V2.
