# Tauri Devs Bi-Weekly Meeting Notes

## Feb 23, 2023

### Agenda

-   [x] Re-introducing an RFC Process
    -   Planning to adapt the
        [`current RFC guidelines`](HTTPS://github.com/tauri-apps/rfcs)
    -   First step is just to create a centralised place to put RFCs
    -   Slowly start to transition there, don't require any development to go
        through there in the beginning
    -   Allows us to be more transparent OUTSIDE of Discord
    -   HTTPS://discord.com/channels/616186924390023171/1077998042982129794
-   [x] SolidJS and Svelte[Kit] for "Tauri Recommendation"
    -   Create a few pointers for each framework that guides a reader to choose
        the appropriate one
    -   Prepare a talk for JSNation? [Denjell] "Blessing a Front End"
-   [x] `create-tauri-app` Version 3 (because Amr is amazing)
    -   [x] "Tauri Core" maintained plus community maintained templates
-   [x] Path to 2.0
    -   Move to a plugin-based architecture per module
    -   `pnpm tauri add notification` syntax
    -   HTTPS://discord.com/channels/616186924390023171/1077624136429473832
    -   Prepare the audit
    -   Keep [`tauri-bindgen`](HTTPS://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri-bindgen)'s
        requirements in mind so we could move over to it internally in the
        future
    -   Would we like to use the RFC process on a per-module level to practice
        moving these discussions out in the open?
    -   How about beta-0 being when we have the core modules (required by Tauri
        internally) moved over to the plugin architecture?
-   [x] Bi-Weekly meetings Format
    -   Keep this sort of WG call to allow us to have discussions (maybe label
        it as a WG call, can open it up to make it transparent, though)
    -   Create a Community Call that can be an update on the progress of Tauri
        and where it's going, RFC updates, release plans, etc.
    -   Maybe start with a monthly cadence after we get RFCs started up?

### Notes

-   Reintroduce RFC for better transparency in Github discussions or Github
    issues.
    -   HTTPS://github.blog/2023-01-09-github-discussions-just-got-better-with-category-forms/
    -   Issues or Discussions?
    -   Channel on Discord to discuss:
        HTTPS://discord.com/channels/616186924390023171/1077998042982129794
-   Recommended framework is not the best one, but the one for anyone doesn't
    know where to choose from.
    -   Focusing on the criteria that guides us to a framework (the thought
        process on how we got to a framework)
    -   HTTPS://discord.com/channels/616186924390023171/1077239510468939787
-   CTA v3
    -   Creating a place for Community Starters?
    -   Chat with Amr about that
-   Tauri 2.0
    -   Make sure to think of breaking changes from a DX perspective
    -   What does auditing look like?

### Action Items

-   [ ] Work to do for release schedule
    -   [ ] bors
-   [ ] Telemetry discussion
