# Tauri WG Bi-Weekly Meeting Notes

## March 09, 2023

### Agenda

-   [x] YuWei: Bi-weekly Office Hour for community
    -   HTTPS://github.com/tauri-apps/meetings
-   [x] Denjell: Telemetry discussion
    -   See notes below
-   [x] Lorenzo / Jonas: RFC Resurrection
    -   Current draft PR: HTTPS://github.com/tauri-apps/rfcs/pull/7
-   [x] Lucas: Tauri 2.0 APIs to Plugins
    -   Plugin POC: HTTPS://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/pull/6339
-   [x] Beanow: Tauri Board
    -   Current status Governance Model
        -   Proposal drafts:
            HTTPS://hackmd.io/@Beanow/BJC5NXidj/%2FhG-Vp9XKRNCcpQESHz_Liwp
    -   Alongside Domain Lead roles, Board elections around June-July

### Notes

-   We'll see how this meeting goes to decide if we need another office hour
    call.
    -   It seems we have enough time. Let's stick to bi-weekly WG call for now.
-   Tauri won't enable telemetry by default. But there could be an option like
    helping bug report. It also need to respect privacy in the first place.
    -   Tauri Org <- Devs, opt-in
        -   Transparency, Privacy respecting
    -   Potentially provide instrumentation in core for Devs <- Users
        -   Never shared with Tauri Org
        -   Hoped to provide best-practice guidance from the working group
    -   Working group will create an RFC for discussion
-   RFC template proposal is ongoing. We probably start with issues for longer
    discussion and PR for finalization.
-   Mobile-specific plugins incoming (sensors, notifications, etc.). Users can
    use android and iOS API directly. This will change the plugin APIs.
    -   restructuring of APIs in core to be more modular and auditable inline
        with a general plugin approach
    -   will be good for maintenance, auditing, and cross-platform usage
    -   using core api / plugins from rust has its complications, which is a
        benefit here
    -   HTTPS://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/pull/6339
-   Tauri board would like to propose new organization structure model.
    -   Find out domain leads among working group members.
    -   Let community understand how the structure works.

### Action Items / Announcement

-   [x] Notice about HTTPS://github.com/tauri
-   [x] Jonas: tauri-bindgen first release
-   [x] Jonas: Streaming woop woop
-   [x] Lorenzo: Roadmap/plan for modules (Tauri APIs) being moved into plugins?

### Questions

-   Any plans to make some plugins stable and publish to Crate and NPM?
    -   Is intended, with the refactor & change to the monorepo.
    -   If you like to help, do get in touch.
        HTTPS://github.com/tauri-apps/plugins-workspace
    -   Starting with pre-releases like `*-alpha` to release plugins without
        waiting for audits.
